[Music]
meet noisy the robot that makes noises
most people don't appreciate his
somewhat strange purpose and find him
irritating at best but in all actuality
this little robot can provide a unique
excursion into the world of sounds
because his memory contains all the
tones of the universe today we'll find
out just what noisy can do and discover
a lot of intriguing things along the way
it's pretty easy to help him all I need
to do is set my imagination free and
give him a challenge let's try this
noisy can you give us the quietest sound
imaginable hmm it seems like nothing's
happening here
we're still waiting noisy oh I know what
the problem is the loudness or should I
say the quietness of this sound is
nearly immeasurable because what noisy
is broadcasting right now is the sound
of air molecules moving around us and
they move all the time vibrating and
therefore technically making a sound
this is why the superhuman characters
and movies seemingly have so much
trouble adapting to their powers like
super hearing they can hear the air
itself and anything else would be too
much noise to deal with good thing we
don't have to worry about that so let's
move on and come up with another task
for our little robot friend
noisy can you make the sound of the
quietest room in the world the sound
here is around minus 20 DB which means
that is 20 decibels below the hearing
threshold of our ears this room isn't
just quiet
it's basically swallowing any sound it
encounters this room is called the
Microsoft and a CO exchange and is found
in Redmond Washington it holds the
Guinness World Records as the quietest
place ever
it seems like my own voice is becoming a
little muted here that's happening
because noisy isn't just playing
recorded sounds no memory can contain
this much information instead cells are
coded in his memory by their qualities
like intensity pitch and even the
density of the space they're spreading
through noisy is a one-of-a-kind robot
that using these qualities can make the
air itself move as if a particular sound
was manipulating it this gives us the
unique opportunity to hear anything from
the depths of the ocean to the vacuum of
space for example noisy what would be
the quietest sound that we could
actually hear sounds familiar this is
the sound of you calmly breathing and
your heart beating at just 10 dB we
won't ever notice it in our everyday
life but remember that we're still in
the quietest room in the world so you
can hear it clearly
fun fact we aren't used to hearing our
own heart and lungs our mind perceive
these sounds as a distress call because
if your heart beats loudly and your
breath is too heavy this typically means
that you're in danger the brain will
desperately scramble to figure out the
reason for this reaction which is why no
one to this day was able to be in the
anechoic chamber for longer than 55
minutes it's really uncomfortable let's
move on to something more tangible to
here's 60 dB I don't even need noisy
this is about the volume of me talking
to you right now or anyone talking to
anyone else actually a change of 50 DB
may seem drastic but this level is a
real comfort zone for our ears turn the
volume up another 50 DB and you'll run
from the source of the noise as fast as
you can
am I right noisy he knows all about it
and here something strange happens
noisy give us the sound of traffic
please it's just 10 DB louder than a
normal conversation but I swear it
sounds like something ten times louder
than that this is because our ears
aren't precise instruments of sound
perception in reality they're constantly
working in tandem with our brains
forming a way to adapt sound to be
convenient for a hearing as I already
said the key definition of a sounds
loudness is in its pitch and intensity
we're naturally programmed to hear
high-pitched sounds as if they were
louder than others and anyone who has an
annoying alarm waking them up in the
morning can tell you that this is a
natural adaptation that makes it easier
for us to react to let's say the
high-pitched sound of a baby crying it's
an uncontrollable reaction of our mind
to find the source of the high-pitched
sound like the baby and make sure it's
not a distress call we also don't
perceive intensity as it actually is if
you raise the intensity of any sound it
will make any difference to your ear
until a certain point it's easy to
represent this way noisy please give us
the traffic noise once again
[Applause]
now make it sound like 10 different
streets with traffic around us yeah
that's enough noisy thank you this
sounds just doubled its volume it's
called the rule of thumb for loudness if
the source of the sound is multiplied by
10 it'll sound only twice as law our
ears they don't detect minor changes in
volume this is the reason why it's
easier for us to measure sound in
decibels which is the same as 10 bells a
change from 60 DB to 61 DB just won't
make any difference to us at all
noisy do you know any piano melodies
yeah perfect
and now show us how loud a roaring truck
is
thank you both things you just heard are
normally around 80 dB
they have the same level of loudness but
one is pleasant to us and another is
barely tolerable this is another quirk
of our hearing that proves that we don't
just have a couple of microphones in our
head but a complex system that can
adjust the loudness of any sound
depending on how we perceive it but here
comes the point where another fluke
happens in our perception at 100 dB the
intensity won't matter whether it's a
trombone and elephant trumpeting or a
helicopter they'd all sound equally loud
because we're getting closer to our
limit noisy don't take it personally but
can you present all the following sounds
to us from inside this semi soundproof
chamber the safety limit of our ears is
situated at around 120 dB any sound
beyond that would be painful to hear at
a close distance these are sounds like
the cymbal crash in a band a police
siren
or a jet plane taking off from the
ground but there are a lot of sounds
that lie in that dangerous territory
that we can explore for example in the
animal world
there's no species louder than a sperm
oil this majestic creature can produce a
series of sound at the astonishing level
of 230 dB no human being could bear this
much noise it's far beyond our reach of
perception this sound can travel 410
miles underwater and it'd be a good idea
to stay out of its range
another underwater animal that can
literally stun with a sound it makes is
the tiger pistol shrimp yep from one of
the biggest animals in the history of
our planet to one of the smallest but it
isn't called pistol shrimp for nothing
in fact it's louder than its namesake
this shrimp can clap its claw and shoot
a stream of water so powerful that it
creates a bubble with a high force which
when it pops at 200 DB will stun every
fish within a six and a half foot radius
and then they'll probably get eaten for
lunch the loudest sound ever registered
on our planet was the sound of the
Krakatoa volcano eruption in 1883 the
sound waves from this explosive event
went around the whole earth four times
and were clearly audible 3,000 miles
away from the volcano itself even noisy
gets a little scared when we're getting
to this part of the excursion still
there are even greater powers in our
universe than this one there was a sound
detected that's as powerful as 100
million supernova explosions and don't
even try to ask noisy to make this sound
out loud
he can but he won't because he doesn't
want our planet to explode normally it's
quite hard to tell how loud objects in
space are because in the vacuum of
cosmos there might only be very thin gas
that can't transfer sound waves except
when we're talking about a black hole in
the Perseus galaxy cluster this monster
can produce a sound that would cover
thousands of light-years around it even
if there's little to no gas in this
space even a brave little robot like
noisy is scared of this one hey if you
learn something new today then give this
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]